
                              MMVE 2018

International Workshop on Immersive Mixed and Virtual Environment Systems

                      Amsterdam, The Netherlands
          Co-located with ACM Multimedia Systems Conference (MMSys)
                          June 12-15, 2018

DATES
-----
Submission Deadline: March 15, 2018 (2359 PST)
Notification Date: April, 20, 2018
Camera Ready: April 27, 2018


CALL FOR PAPERS
---------------

MMVE 2018 marks the 10th year anniversary of the MMVE workshop.

MMVE started 10 years ago with a vision of enabling multi-user
interactive 3D virtual environments on a massive scale. In recent
years, technical advances have enabled many new devices, such as head
mounted displays, wearable sensing devices, gesture-based input
devices, that increase the level of immersion through how users
experience and interact with the 3D virtual environment. At the same
time, wearable displays such as smart glasses and the availability of
depth-sensing cameras on mobile phones are enabling mixed reality
applications. While we are moving closer to the vision of MMVE due to
more users having access to 3D mixed/virtual environments with a
better experience, the advances also bring new systems research
challenges and opportunities: There is now more data to sense,
collect, store, transmit, process, display. At the same time, there
are tighter constraints on the system performance, such as interaction
latency, computation power, energy, and bandwidth, due to increased
immersiveness of the system, miniaturization of sensing and display
devices, and an increasingly distributed nature of the system. These
challenges and opportunities provide the systems research community a
rich set of problems on how operating systems, distributed systems,
networking systems, programming systems, data management systems,
embedded systems can better support mixed or 3D virtual environment
applications.

With this perspective, MMVE is renamed "International Workshop on
IMmersive Mixed and Virtual Environment Systems.

MMVE will remain a discussion-focused workshop as a forum for
researchers and practitioners in the field to discuss new ideas and to
present their latest research work. Being co-located with ACM MMSys, a
premier conference on multimedia systems, MMVE also provides a unique
opportunity for researchers in the field, both from academia and
industry, to gather and interact with systems researchers.

Scope of the Workshop

MMVE 2018 solicits papers related to various systems challenges in
enabling great user experience in immersive mixed reality systems and
3D virtual environments. In particular, research papers addressing the
challenges from the perspective of one or more of the following
systems aspects:

- Operating systems and middleware: high-performance OS support for
  capturing, storing, rendering, processing, and transmission of content

- Networking and distributed systems: protocol and architecture for low
  latency, high throughput data distribution

- Programming systems: systems and tools that support developers of
  immersive VR/AR applications

- Mobile and embedded systems: support for tight resource constraints;
  novel hardware/software architecture; sensors and IoT

- Data management systems: support for high-performance data storage and
retrieval

addressing one or more of the following performance issues:

- Interactivity: provide responsive, near real-time interactions and
  user experience despite latency or jitter

- Scalability: able to handle many interacting concurrent users,
  and/or devices

- Consistency: provide consistent views for users, despite the
  inherent delay in state updates

- Throughput: support high bandwidth transmission or techniques
  to reduce bandwidth requirements

- Fault tolerance: able to handle failure in one or more of the
  components

- Security and privacy: allow secure interactions and privacy
  guarantees

- Resource constraints: support mobile/wearable devices and sensors

regarding multi-modal content:

- 3D data: meshes, point sets, textures etc. that constitute synthesized
  scenes and objects for mixed and virtual reality environments.

- Multi-sensory data: audio, visual, olfactory, haptic, and taste data
  that constitute data that are captured from reality and/or synthesized
  for rendering.

- Environmental data: information captured by other sensors that feed
  into the immersive application, such as user motion and position
  or environmental lighting conditions.

Submission Instructions

MMVE 2018 accepts both full papers and short (poster or demo) papers.
Full paper submissions should be 4-6 pages in length. We expect full
paper submissions to be the kernel of what will eventually lead to
full-length papers at high-quality conferences or journals.  Short
paper submissions should be 2-3 pages in length. We expect short paper
submissions to either present a work-in-progress idea for discussions
at the workshop or describe a system suitable for technical
demonstration at the workshop.

All submissions should be formatted using the standard ACM proceedings
style. All submissions must be blinded and constitute original,
unpublished work not under review elsewhere. Submissions will undergo
a double-blind peer review process and will be selected based on their
originality, merit, and relevance to the workshop. Accepted papers
must be presented by one of the authors at the workshop and will be
archived in ACM Digital Library as part of the ACM MMSys 2018
proceedings.

Authors of selected papers from MMVE 2018 will be invited to submit an
extended version of their papers to a special issue of ACM Transactions of
Multimedia (TOMM).

ORGANIZATION
------------
Workshop Chair

  Wei Tsang Ooi, National University of Singapore

Technical Program Committee

  Colin Allison, University of St. Andrews, UK
  Anand Bhojan, National University of Singapore, Singapore
  Jean Botev, The University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
  Azzedine Boukerche, University of Ottawa, Canada
  Jacob Chakareski, University of Alabama, USA
  Alvin Cheung, University of Washington, USA
  Herman Engelbrecht, Stellenbosch University, South Africa
  Stefano Ferretti, University of Bologna, Italy
  Carsten Griwodz, Simula Research Laboratory, Norway
  Shun Yun Hu, Imonology Inc, Taiwan
  Pan Hui, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong
  Jinyuan Jia, Tongji University, China
  Joaquin Keller, Orange Labs, France
  Haricharan Lakshman, Dolby Laboratories, USA
  Elvis Liu, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
  Geraldine Morin, University of Toulouse, France
  Kevin	Ponto, Wisconsin Institute for Discovery, USA
  Laura Ricci, University of Pisa, Italy
  Gregor Schiele, Universität Duisburg-Essen, Germany
  Ryan Shea, Simon Fraser University, Canada
  Xueyan Tang, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
  Krzysztof Walczak, Poznań University of Economics and Business, Poland
  Cedric Westphal, University of California Santa Cruz, USA
