--------------------------------------------------------
                 CALL FOR PAPERS

        The 3rd International Workshop on 
 Massively Multiuser Virtual Environments (MMVE 2010)
 
    at the 7th ACM International Conference on 
Advances in Computer Entertainment Technology (ACE 2010)

               November 17,  2010
                 Taipei, Taiwan
         http://peers-at-play.org/MMVE10/
--------------------------------------------------------

Massively Multiuser Virtual Environment (MMVE) systems are spatial 
simulations that provide real-time human interactions among thousands 
to millions of concurrent users. MMVEs have experienced phenomenal 
growth in recent years in the form of massively multiplayer online games 
(MMOGs) such as World of Warcraft and Lineage, and social communities 
such as Second Life and Hobbo Hotel. The technical aspect of designing, 
developing, and deploying them is highly interdisciplinary and involves 
experts from many domains, including graphics, networking, protocol and 
architecture designs. The MMVE workshop intends to provide a forum for 
both academic researchers and industry developers to investigate the 
architectural and system support for MMVEs. By gathering experts under 
one roof, we wish to discuss their findings, incite collaborations, and 
move the state of the art forward. 


Topics 
------ 
The workshop seeks to provide a forum for researchers and practitioners 
in the field, and encourages discussions based on the presented papers 
to identify current and future research topics. 

Some key and emerging issues we would especially like to solicit are:

1. The integration with casual, social networking systems. 

Recently there has been a surge of casual social games on social 
networking sites such as Facebook, with tens of millions of active 
users. While many of them are not yet real-time in nature, providing 
massive real-time interactions may only be a matter of time. How will 
such systems emerge or be designed? Additionally, many 3D chatrooms / 
instant messengers are now appearing (e.g., IMVU, Club Cooee, Game Xiu). 
While most interactions are limited as room-based small-group 
interactions, the total concurrent users may also reach critical sizes 
given their casual nature (e.g., IMVU has already over 1 million active 
accounts). How should such systems be supported and scale? 

2. The adoption of parallelism to increase scale. 

Fast GPU and multi-core processors are now becoming common commodity. 
How will this hardware trend impact MMVE server-cluster design? And how 
should P2P approaches for MMVE take advantage of the increased power at 
client-side? Additionally, home set-top boxes with large local storage 
and broadband Internet connections are becoming household commodities, 
how will this trend impact the ways MMVEs be delivered (perhaps via 
content streaming) or architected? 

3. Interoperable MMVE standards and protocols. 

As the market for virtual world increases and matures, efforts to 
provide interoperable user experience across multiple virtual 
environments have also intensified. For example, initiatives are ongoing 
to form IETF working groups on defining virtual world standard protocols 
(e.g., MMOX and VWRAP ). Part of any standard process is the 
identification of common features and requirements. What are the common 
features and requirements in MMVE that may be modeled and abstracted to 
facilitate such standardization effort? And are there working protocols 
that already exist in current systems? We would like to invite such 
experience sharing and discussions. 
   
The workshop thus will address the following issues:

1. Scalability: the ability to handle at least thousands of concurrent 
users, interacting via Internet. 

2. Interactivity: how to provide responsive, near real time interactions 
despite latency and jitter. 

3. Consistency: providing consistent views for users, despite the 
inherent delay in state updates. 

4. Persistency: the ability to save and access the world states despite 
disconnections and failures. 

5. Security and privacy: distributed algorithms that allow secure 
interactions and privacy guarantees. 

6. Interoperability: integration of multiple systems or providers with 
common protocols or clients. 

7. Bandwidth restricted (mobile) devices: the integration of mobile 
devices for nomadic systems. 

8. Self-organizing architectures: load balancing and fault tolerance 
without manual configurations. 

9. Content streaming: voice communication and 3D content streaming. 

10. Implementation issues: novel approaches to effectively manage the 
complexity of development. 

    
Submission Guidelines
----------------------

Paper submissions must cover one of the topics listed above, or a 
closely- related one. Submitted papers should be at most 6 pages long 
and *must be blinded*. Research papers must be original prior 
unpublished work and not under review elsewhere. All submissions will be 
peer-reviewed (double-blind) and selected based on their originality, 
merit, and relevance to the workshop. 

Submissions in PDF format must be submitted online through the workshop 
page at http://peers-at-play.org/MMVE10/ no later than August 30th, 
2010. Accepted papers must be presented at the workshop. Accepted papers 
will appear in a special issue of the International Journal of Advanced 
Media and Communications (IJAMC). 

If you have any questions, please email us at mmve@peers-at-play.org. 


Important Dates
---------------
Submission Deadline:        September  13th, 2010 (extended)
Acceptance Notification:    October   4th, 2010
Camera Ready Version:       October,  11th, 2010
Workshop Date:              November, 19th, 2010


Organizers
----------
TPC Co-Chairs:
 * Shervin Shirmohammadi, University of Ottawa, Canada
 * Jeffrey Kesselman, Blue fang Games, USA

Steering Committee:
 * Gregor Schiele, University of Mannheim, Germany
 * Shun-Yun Hu, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
 * Wei Tsang Ooi, National University of Singapore, Singapore
 * Arno Wacker, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
 

Technical Program Committee
---------------------------------------
Maha Abdallah, University of Paris VI, France
Dewan T. Ahmed, University of Ottawa, Canada  
Christian Bouville, IRISA, France                            
Romain Cavagna, University of Paris VI, France               
Kuan-Ta Chen, Academia Sinica, Taiwan                        
Abdennour El Rhalibi, Liverpool John Moores University, UK   
Chris GauthierDickey, University of Denver, USA              
Carsten Griwodz, Simula Research, Norway 
Behnoosh Hariri, University of Ottawa, Canada                    
Aaron Harwood, University of Melbourne, Australia            
Sebastian Holzapfel, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Jehn-Ruey Jiang, National Central University, Taiwan         
Stephan Krause, University of Karlsruhe, Germany             
Jay Lorch, Microsoft Research, USA                           
Pedro Morillo Tena, University of Valencia, Spain            
Jauvane C. Oliveira, LNCC, Brazil                            
Peter Quax, Hasselt University, Belgium                      
Laura Ricci, University of Pisa, Italy                       
Simon Rieche, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Ingo Scholtes, University of Trier, Germany                  
Gwendal Simon, TELECOM Bretagne, France                      
Richard Suselbeck, Univ. Mannheim, Germany                   
Shinichi Ueshima, Kansai University, Japan                   
Matteo Varvello, Alcatel-Lucent (Holmdel, NJ), USA
Shinya Yamamoto, Tokyo University of Science, Yamaguchi, Japan
Knut-Helge Vik, Simula Research, Norway
Suiping Zhou, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Roger Zimmermann, National University of Singapore, Singapore
